One, two, three, four, five.
It's all going.
Cardiff Carnival 25th anniversary.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
The location is Swicker office.
The interviewee is Griff Taylor.
And today's date is the 24th of September 2015.
Griff, would you be kind enough for the record to spell your name in full?
My name, Griff Taylor.
G-R-I-F-F.
Taylor T-A-Y-L-O-R.
Thanks, Griff.
Can you remember when you first made contact with Cardiff Carnival?
Well, it is now over 20 years and so my recollections are vague.
However, I think I was involved with the setting up of Swicker, you know, called in those days, prior to going abroad for two and a half years.
The organisation, Steve, that you worked with prior to Swicker, what was it called?
Theatre Tannieson Wales.
That's right.
That was the one.
That's where and which was about reinstating or comparing various myths with some Welsh myths from myths abroad and myths in Wales.
And I liked the idea.
It was cosmopolitan and suited my ethic.
Then Swicker was started up and I got involved with that.
And at which point, so soon after, I went away to the Solomon Islands with voluntary services overseas, otherwise known as VSO as a volunteer.
And I was there from 1990 to 1993.
When I returned, it was just before a carnival event in Cardiff and I got involved with an organisation called Patwa Dance, which was a subcontract with Swicker to put on a part of the carnival event itself.
And at the time, I was dressed as a whale, as we were in Wales.
Whale in this occasion spelled W-H-A-L-E-S.
And we had on our heads, the whale tails, which were extremely heavy, especially when you were samba dancing around Cardiff.
That's my first recollection.
Got it.
Lovely to have Patwa recalled.
I remember the Brazilian lady who came to Cardiff, choreographer, dance tutor, Fernanda Amarell from Brazil.
And of course, she set up her Brazilian community dance group.
And well, it's nice to capture her name in the history of Cardiff Carnival.
And you were there at the beginning.
So you've performed in the carnival, you've paraded, but one of the many contributions you've made to Cardiff Carnival is actually helping to document it.
Those who not merely listen to these audio interviews, but go to the archive can find, of course, many images.
Some of the best, I have to say, in the history of the Cardiff Carnival were captured by yourself.
What's it like trying to capture, yes, to frame, to make sense of all that, the maelstrom of images?
I mean, how did you go about it? How did you go about it?
Well, yes. What made you so successful as a carnival photographer?
Well, what you have to remember is that in the days that I was doing the photography, I was doing it on film, which meant you had 36 frames per film.
And so the shot ratio that is good ones to bad ones ought to be really good.
Otherwise, you're just wasting your time and your money.
So in these days with digital photography, of course, you can just delete and you don't lose the cash.
But what it made me do is be extremely cautious.
And if I could get a high hit ratio, good shots to bad shots, then it was an improvement.
And what I used to do, what I realized was that in order to get good pictures, you had to develop a relationship with the person being photographed instantly.
I mean, obviously not absolutely instantly, but very quickly.
So as you moved around the carnival procession itself, you would develop an empathy, a sort of a relationship with the people you're taking photographs of.
And if they had a good relationship with you, you got a good photograph.
You had to frame it. That was it then.
Yeah, that makes total sense.
And clearly as a as a formula, it worked because I say some of your images have been amazing.
But you supported Swicker and Cardiff Carnival in many different ways.
Like all volunteer groups, you know, were constituted and there were staff and there were project workers.
But behind the scenes, there's a vitally important level of management and governance.
The Board of Management and you've been on Swicker Carnival's Board of Management for a long time.
And indeed, what you get to do before we talk about that in particular, perhaps you, you know, for the record, care to list the other arts organizations that you've been able to to help in this way.
Because this kind of help is invaluable and really does help organizations to to thrive.
Yes. Well, Steve and I first met when I was introduced to the Board of Management of Cardiff Laboratory Theatre back in the 80s.
I'm not sure exactly when.
And since then, I've been become involved not only with Swicker, but with also with photo gallery and more recently, Lanova Hall Trust.
And as it happens, the Steiner School in North Cardiff.
Now, I do these things. I'm able to do things partly because I retired a long time ago and I have the time to do it.
But also, as many prospective retirees often feel, they're not sure what they're going to do in their lives after they stop working.
Well, what I've discovered is you don't stop working.
It's amazing. You have more drama, if you like, in your life after you retire.
Calls on your time.
And calls, yes, but what you need. You really need it.
So from my point of view, I need Swicker as much as Swicker needs me because I need the the fascination of being involved.
So that's for other people to learn from, I guess.
So, but what I also would like to say is that my previous experience as before I retired was with the Civil Service working for the Welsh office over several decades.
During which time I learned how to deal with problems or analyze them and articulate responses and and devise ways of solutions if we need them.
And which I found very useful when it comes to voluntary work with other organizations.
So much so that I find that that advantage I have of being an ex civil servant is very superior quality to many people because they haven't had that earlier experience.
Yeah.
I'm very grateful to say that Swicker Carnival owes much to its board members past, present and future.
And, yeah, for the record, I'd like to thank them all unilaterally, but specifically since we're talking to Griff Taylor in particular.
Of course, Griff was on board in the very early days of Swicker and Cardiff Carnival's had many different formats, different parade routes, different outcomes.
You were there at what some people see the hailstene days as the mid 90s, when things really began to take off for the carnival.
The carnival camp would have been at Cattays Community Center, and we would have finished on the steps of the National Museum of Wales.
Of course, give us some insight into what was it like from your perspective then? What was it like walking into Cattays Community Center?
Well, it was one of the best experiences of all really because I think the carnival is not just the walking around part of the procession.
It's the process of making, which is for many of us and including me, one of the better parts of it.
The painting, the making of costumes and the learning the dance techniques, steps.
All of that is part of the process, which I thoroughly enjoyed.
And I recall going into Cattays Community Center when it would be packed, hardly room for another elbow with people painting faces and learning to do things and samba practices and so on.
And it was vital. It was just wonderful.
Can't say more than that really.
How about the end product having paraded through what was then the Civic Center?
Do you recall the outcome, some of the finale type shows on the steps of the National Museum?
How were they in terms of spectacle?
Yes, well, as we spoke earlier, I was taking photographs often on that occasion.
So I'd see the steps and see everything going on there.
And it really was spectacular.
It was wonderful.
One of the, I do recall one of the problems which you had envisaged was getting rid of the crowds.
Once you stopped, what do you do?
So that I do remember Kathy Weatherup, who may well be another one of the.
She has been interviewed. She's on the list.
She's been interviewed.
Was able to get hold of the mic and explain to people how they should go home.
And it was starting to work. But she stood in there at a vital point.
It's worth saying that those outcomes at the other steps of the National Museum of Wales would generate big family audiences who were entertained for,
well, perhaps for at least an hour afterwards, there would be choreographed songs and dances.
And indeed, the themed card of carnivals would have their their name picked out in fireworks on the portico above the National Museum of Wales.
Something that you'd find hard to imagine happening now.
Of course, once and quite rightly to make the building accessible, once those beautiful steps, which were like different landings or stages for us,
once, of course, they were broken up by, I think, four to six brass railings, then, of course, our stage disappeared.
The museum became more accessible.
Unfortunately, for one night of the year, we lost our stages, which is a shame.
Yesterday, we heard from our principal funder, the Arts Council of Wales, that they intend that they will be withdrawing revenue funding.
That's core support for the organisation from April onwards.
I'm just wondering on an emotional level or whatever.
Yes. What's your reaction to that?
Or where are we in Wales now with public and community celebration?
What's your sort of snapshot view on that?
Where are we going?
Or where are we?
Where are we? Yes.
What's the future for coming together in large numbers and creating collectively?
If SWCCA is unable to fund itself, there won't be a carnival, which means there won't be a process and there won't be workshops prior to it.
The artists that were involved won't have an avenue to explore their talents, their artistic skills.
And the people of the community won't have an opportunity to get involved in the dance, in the procession, in the making.
And so, as has happened in the past, there won't be an opportunity for people to discover their ability and their enjoyment, which can often become vocational.
And I know of dancers that have gone off to become professional dancers and artists that have become very successful professional artists.
All of these things may die out. It will become more difficult at least.
Well, it's a crying shame to end on a somewhat downbeat note, but harsh realities often intervene, even in the wonderful world of SWCCA and carnival.
Can I just say for the record, Griff, it's been a pleasure talking.
Okay, good.
And I sincerely hope all good things to you and many thanks indeed.
Okay, thank you.